# very_abstract_network_PDU_journey_simulator

A visual interactive tool that -abstractly- mimics packet/frame traversal dynamics as per fundamental computer networking concepts. The main goal is to enable the user to observe the traversal of abstract PDUs (like frames and packets) as part of a simple transaction between any two hosts on a network the user have set (a complete cycle of a request and its corresponding response). You can see it as a simple solver of basic/classic networking PDU traversal/behavior problems (e.g. "what happens when you hit google.com?").

I wrote this program to demostrate/apply to what I've learned from studying this [Networking Fundamentals Video Series](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLIFyRwBY_4bRLmKfP1KnZA6rZbRHtxmXi), alongside with this [Subnetting Video Series](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLIFyRwBY_4bQUE4IB5c4VPRyDoLgOdExE) from the same Instructor. The main series teaches how network communication occurs and how data flows between different network entities in any network as per the the OSI model.

I'm learning this as part of my plan to study web app development, specifically, backend development. I will most likely zoom-in a bit after this and study and learn about common networking protocols of today's internet.

The OSI model is a very good **conceptual** model or framework to **understand**, **describe**, and **communicate** how different components of a network interact with each other. It being a conceptual model/framework means it's more of a **theoritical** model and less of a practical model for implementation of networks (like a physician explaining how a typical car works without bothering how it's manufactued). The OSI model being conceptual and theoritical, doesn't mean it's a 'skimmed' model, but instead, it means it serves a close-but-different purpose compared to other more practical models, in fact, one of the reasons the OSI model is less practical to implement is it's overly comprehensive/broad. *Another reason is that the OSI model was developed before specific protocols were widely established, leading to a theoretical framework that lacks direct compatibility with many established real-world protocols used on the internet.*

### What the hell is a PDU
